So now what about adding a product?
Well when we add a product, we obviously want to create a new product and then add to the list
but we want to add it to the list in a way that doesn't affect the other product items so that not everything
is re-rendered
just because we added a product . S therefore when the mode is is adding here, I want to create a new
item,
so I basically want to execute this code here, though I will say we can optimize this as well but then
I want to add to the list in a way that doesn't negatively impact the other parts, that doesn't re-render
everything.
So first of all let's outsource this create element code here so that we can reuse it by grabbing all
that code inside of that for each anonymous function here
like
this here without the product list
el append child code and add this to create element. Now in there, we'll need a product argument, we'll also
need a prodId and all the places where we access product.id, let's use prodId instead
and we'll need a pointer at that
delete product fn, delete product function which I'm using here.
Now we can call create element and this function should also return something, it should return that
new list element, the new product element
for the DOM which is created here in the end.
So now we can call create element, call it here in render products, there we have our new list element
which is the result of calling create element with product, product.id and delete
product fn which is an argument we're getting here which I'm just forwarding to create element and
now here in update products, we can also call create element, forward product and prodId, forward
the delete product function and what we get back is our new product el or new list el, of course we can
use the same name as up there, just using a different one to avoid confusion and now we want to add this
to the DOM and actually we want to add it to the DOM such that we add it in front of the other elements
because the logic we have in product management for adding a product is also that we unshift it, so
that we add it at the beginning of the array, so we should reflect this also in our rendering method.
So here, I now need access to the place in DOM where this should get rendered and I can get this here
in the same way I'm getting it in render products, it's that element with the product list ID, that's
in the unordered list.
Now since I need access to this both here in render products and in update products, it makes sense
to outsource this and turn this into a global variable here.
So now with that, when we use product list el like we do here in render products, it will still be available
and now we can also use it here in update products, product list el and now insert adjacent element after
begin to add it inside of the unordered list but at the very beginning of it, we want to add that new
product element and now we just have to make sure that we call update products from inside the product
management file when we add a product.
So here at the moment we call render products, this is not what we want to do,
instead here in the add product function, we want to call update products and forward the new product
we created, the new product.id so that we also pass on the product.id in a dedicated way. The
delete product function pointer pointing at this delete product function here and also true for is adding.
Another implication of this is now that we can remove the render products import here because we're
not needing this here anymore
and with that if we now save that, we should have a set up where we don't re-render everything if we
add an item either.
So let's again have a look at all the list items here on the right.
and let's add a new product here
and if we click add product now, okay this actually reloads because in shop.js where I have my dynamic
import function here, we should call event prevent default here otherwise when we call it in the real
add product function this will be too late because this happens asynchronously after this extra script
was downloaded,
so we need to do it here, a little oversight from my side,
sorry about that,
it also means we can remove event prevent default here in product-management.js
in the add product function but now with that, let's try it again.
Let's now enter test five here or whatever you want,
watch the list items on the right and click add product and you'll see this first one flashed, the other
ones didn't because they weren't re-rendered.
So now with that, we actually implemented a huge improvement,
we might not really see it here in performance because of the simplicity of this app but still, this is
something which can really slow down bigger apps if you're doing it wrong.
So let's now delete something again here and take a snapshot of that,
well as you can tell, if we expand the main thread here,
we didn't gain that much here but actually, it's a bit faster than it was before but we could speed it
up a little bit at least
and I can tell you that this is definitely better than what we had before
and still, it's not optimal yet, our rendering code isn't perfect yet. We're creating a bunch of DOM nodes
separately and we can actually do this with less code and with a bit better code. So let's revisit
the create element function here.
Of course we need to create our list item element here but the h2 and the p tags, we don't really need
to create them like this, instead what we could do here is we could reach out to the new list element
and set its innerHTML here to a template literal like this
and in here, then add a h2 tag and a paragraph tag and then here we dynamically output whatever the
user entered,
so in this case the product title and then here, also the product price.
Now beware of cross site scripting attacks here
as you learned in the Security Module, you want to sanitize this content
normally, here we're not doing it and the user could therefore inject malicious code here.
So this is a security issue
and you normally want to sanitize therefore, I'm just not doing it here because I want to focus on the
performance part.
I will create the button like this because there, I will also add an event listener. These two lines can
go now,
they were related to the previous way of creating separate nodes for the h2 and the paragraph tag. For
the button here instead of setting innerHTML, we can also use text content which is a bit better because
we are only setting text here, so no need to use innerHTML. Adding the event listener like this is
fine and then down there, we don't need to add the title and price element anymore because we're using
innerHTML, instead we just need to add the button at the end.
So this is now actually a better version of that snippet, it's less code and simply a bit better. With
this now, I'm quite happy with our rendering code here and you can definitely always find something which
you can improve but for now this is good and the part where we made sure that we don't unnecessarily
re-render the entire list is of course the most important improvement we achieved here.